RTC beta (#1778)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: rtc/configuration.md

---
layout: default
title: RTC configuration
title_nav: Configuration options
description: List of all available RTC configuration options.
keywords: rtc configuration
---

## List of all available RTC configuration options

### `rtc_service_url`

The service url should point to the cloud service and include your api key.

**Type:** `String`

**Required:** yes
#### Example setting the service url

```js
tinymce.init({
  ...
  rtc_service_url: 'https://rtc.tiny.cloud/1/<your api key>'
})
```

### `rtc_document_details_provider`

> The document details includes a document ID. This is the ID you share with other people collaborating on the document so it should be publicly available.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

Generate a unique key by creating a function that takes the document ID, session ID and, if this is an existing session, a key hint. How you generate the key is up to you. Secure ways include:

* Generate and store a random key for each new document session in your database.
* Generate single random key per document, and salt it *on your server* with the session ID to provide a different key per session.
* Store a global list of keys for your application, and use the document ID and session ID to salt the current key *on your server* to produce a key unique to the document session. You should return a key hint to identify the key in case you rotate to a new key later.

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** yes

#### Input fields

* documentId:string - Unique public document ID that is used when sharing the document
* sessionId:int - Session ID generated by the server (0 ≤ sessionId < 2³¹)
* keyHint:string/undefined - Key hint (e.g. a key ID) provided by the client which opened the session (only if there is an existing session)

#### Return fields

> * key:string - Encryption key that is used to locally encrypt operations this needs to be the same for all connecting clients.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

> * keyHint:string/undefined - Optional key hint to provide to later clients to aid in key selection. This can be a key thumbprint, ID or other non-sensitive identifier that will help select the key like a timestamp. It is only recorded when opening a new session. (unicode, max 256 characters)

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

### Example of providing static encryption details

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_encryption_provider: ({documentId, sessionId}) => {
    return Promise.resolve({
      key: "your shared encryption key"
    });
  }
})
```

### Example of providing encryption details from your server

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_encryption_provider: ({documentId, sessionId, keyHint}) => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getKey', {
      method: 'POST',
      body: JSON.stringify({ documentId, sessionId, keyId: keyHint })
    })
    .then(({keyId, secret}) => ({ key: secret, keyHint: keyId });
  }
})
```

### `rtc_token_provider`

> The RTC plugin and service uses [JWT]({{site.baseurl}}/rtc/jwt-authentication/) to authenticate the user. This token should include a unique user ID and a relative expiration time. This provider function will be called multiple times to refresh the token if it about to expire. So for production use cases it should be a dynamic request that produces a fresh JWT token with a updated `exp` claim.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** yes

### Required JWT claims

* sub:string - the unique user ID (i.e. if `sub` is the same for two clients, you should trust them as if they're the same user)
* exp:int - the timestamp when the token expires

#### Return fields

* token:string - A generated JWT token this should be signed with the private key.

### Example of providing a static JWT token

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_token_provider: () => Promise.resolve({ token: "your-jwt-token" })
})
```

### Example of providing a JWT token from your server

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_token_provider: () => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getJwtToken', {
      method: 'POST'
    })
    .then(token => ({ token });
  }
})
```

### `rtc_snapshot`

> In an RTC session you normally don't have a save button as the session is constantly being stored. A snapshot callback is available, it will be executed at regular intervals with the serialized editor contents. The content is retrieved though a getContent function this is to lazily create the serialized version of the model since that serialization process could be CPU intensive.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

### Input fields

* sessionId:int - Session identifier generated by the server (0 ≤ sessionId < 2³¹)
* version:int - 31 bit number (0 ≤ version < 2³¹) with the increasing version number
* getContent():string - Function to execute to get the content for that particular version.

### Example of getting content snapshots

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_snapshot: ({sessionId, version, getContent}) => {
    console.log('Current version', version);
    console.log('HTML', getContent());
  }
}
```

### `rtc_initial_content`

> By default the initial contents is retrieved from target element that you initialized the editor on but since that content only needs to be retrieved when there is no active RTC session opened this optional provider function can be used instead to provide the initial content. This also works better with the various tinymce [integrations]({{site.baseurl}}/integrations/) that doesn't provide access to the target element directly.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

    console.log('HTML', getContent());
  }
}
```

### `rtc_initial_content`

By default the initial contents is retrieved from target element that you initialized the editor on but since that content only needs to be retrieved when there is no active RTC session opened this optional provider function can be used instead to provide the initial content. This also works better with the various tinymce [integrations]({{site.baseurl}}/integrations/) that doesn't provide access to the target element directly.

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

### Return fields

- content:string - String containing the HTML to be imported into the editor when there is no active session.

### Example of providing static content

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_initial_content: () => Promise.resolve({ content: "<p>Hello world!</p>" })
})
```

### Example of providing dynamic content from the server

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_initial_content: () => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getContent', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
      }
    });
  }
})
```

### `rtc_user_details_provider`

> By default the user ID will be displayed as the name for the remote carets. In order to display a proper full name the user ID needs to be resolved into user details that include the full user name. This provider function will be called for each connecting client if this setting is omitted then the user ID will be presented as name for the remote user if you hover the remote carets.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

### Return fields

- fullName:string - Full name of user for example "John Doe"

### Example of providing static user details

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_user_details_provider: ({userId}) => Promise.resolve({ fullName: "John Doe" })
})
```

### Example of providing user details from your server

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_user_details_provider: ({userId}) => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getUserDetails', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({userId})
    });
  }
})
```

### `rtc_custom_user_details`

You might want to provide extra details about the current user to the other connecting clients. This setting enables you to do that. You don't want to pass sensitive information here; the authenticity of user data is not guaranteed.

This API is designed for use in status flags such as "is the user on a mobile device".

An object that must be serializable (`JSON.stringify` will be used to transmit it between clients).

**Type:** `Object`

**Required:** no

### Example of providing custom user details

```js
tinymce.init({

>   rtc_custom_user_details: { onMobile: true, region: 'us' }

Reviewer: no demos yet.

})
```

### `rtc_user_connected`

> In many applications supporting real-time collaboration, the currently connected users are displayed. This setting enables you to track when a user enters the session. There are 8 distinct caret colors so the caret number will be a value from 1-8 if more than 8 people connect numbers will be reused.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

### Input fields

* userId:string - This is the JWT user ID for the connecting or disconnecting user
* caretNumber:int - The user's caret number 1-8 (helpful to disambiguate when a user connects multiple times)
* custom:object - Custom data passed out from the other clients `rtc_custom_user_details` function. If none is provided this will be an empty object.

### Example of providing custom user details

```js
tinymce.init({
  rtc_user_connected: ({userId, caretNumber, custom}) => {
    console.log('Connected', userId, caretNumber, custom);
  }
})
```

### `rtc_user_disconnected`

> In many applications supporting real-time collaboration, the currently connected users are displayed. This setting enables you to track when a user leaves the session.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

To generate a unique encryption key, create a function that accepts the following arguments:
* The document ID
* The session ID
* A key hint (only required for existing sessions)

Secure ways to generate an encryption key include:

* Generate and store a random key for each new document session in your database.
* Generate single random key per document, and salt it _on your server_ with the session ID to provide a different key per session.
* Store a global list of keys for your application, and use the document ID and session ID to salt the current key _on your server_ to produce a key unique to the document session. You should return a key hint to identify the key in case you rotate to a new key later.

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** yes

### Input fields for `rtc_encryption_provider`

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|
| `documentId` | string | Unique public document ID that is used when sharing the document. |

> | `sessionId` | integer | Session ID generated by the server (0 ≤ sessionId < 2<sup>31</sup>). |

Reviewer 2: This isn't going to be understandable by most readers, so maybe something like this?
```suggestion
| `sessionId` | integer | Session ID generated by the server. This should be a number between 0 and 2147483648. |
```

| `keyHint` | string/undefined | Key hint (such as a key ID) provided by the client which opened the session (only required if there is an existing session). |

### Return fields for `rtc_encryption_provider`

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|
| `key` | string | Encryption key that is used to locally encrypt operations. This key needs to be the same for all connecting clients. |

> | `keyHint` | string/undefined | Optional key hint to provide to later clients to aid in key selection. This can be a key thumbprint, ID or other non-sensitive identifier that will help select the key like a timestamp. It is only recorded when opening a new session. (unicode, max 256 characters) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `keyHint` | string or undefined | Optional key hint to provide to clients that connect later, to aid in key selection. This can be a key thumbprint, ID or other non-sensitive identifier that will help select the key like a timestamp. It is only recorded when opening a new session. (unicode, max 256 characters) |
```

### Example of providing static encryption details

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_encryption_provider: ({documentId, sessionId}) => {
    return Promise.resolve({
      key: "your shared encryption key"
    });
  }
})
```

### Example of providing encryption details from your server

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_encryption_provider: ({documentId, sessionId, keyHint}) => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getKey', {
      method: 'POST',
      body: JSON.stringify({ documentId, sessionId, keyId: keyHint })
    })
    .then(({keyId, secret}) => ({ key: secret, keyHint: keyId });
  }
})
```

## `rtc_token_provider`

> The RTC plugin and service uses [JWT]({{site.baseurl}}/rtc/jwt-authentication/) to authenticate the user. This token should include a unique user ID and a relative expiration time. This provider function will be called multiple times to refresh the token if it about to expire. For production usage, the token provider should be a dynamic request that produces a new JWT token with a updated `exp` claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RTC plugin and service uses [JWT]({{site.baseurl}}/rtc/jwt-authentication/) to authenticate the user. This token should include a unique user ID and a relative expiration time. This provider function will be called multiple times to refresh the token if it's about to expire. For production usage, the token provider should be a dynamic request that produces a new JWT token with an updated `exp` claim.
```

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** yes

### Required JWT claims

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|
| `sub` | string | The unique user ID (If `sub` is the same for two clients, the server should trust them as if they are the same user). |
| `exp` | integer | The timestamp when the token expires. |

### Return fields for `rtc_token_provider`

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|
| `token` | string | A generated JWT token. This token should be signed with the private key. |

### Example of providing a static JWT token

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_token_provider: () => Promise.resolve({ token: "your-jwt-token" })
})
```

### Example of providing a JWT token from your server

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_token_provider: () => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getJwtToken', {
      method: 'POST'
    })
    .then(token => ({ token });
  }
})
```

## `rtc_snapshot`

> Real-time collaboration sessions don't typically have a save button and the session is constantly being stored. A snapshot callback will be executed at regular intervals with the serialized editor contents. The content is retrieved though a `getContent` function to lazily create the serialized version of the content to reduce the CPU load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Real-time collaboration sessions don't typically have a save button and the session is constantly being stored. A snapshot callback will be executed at regular intervals with the serialized editor content. The content is retrieved though the `getContent` function to lazily create the serialized version of the content to reduce the CPU load.
```

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

### Input fields for `rtc_snapshot`

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|

> | `sessionId` | integer | Session identifier generated by the server (0 ≤ sessionId < 2<sup>31</sup>). |
> | `version` | integer | 31 bit number (0 ≤ version < 2<sup>31</sup>) with an increasing version number. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `sessionId` | integer | Session identifier generated by the server. This should be a number between 0 and 2147483648 (2<sup>31</sup>). |
| `version` | integer | 31 bit number (0 ≤ version < 2<sup>31</sup>) with an increasing version number. |
```

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

### Return fields for `rtc_initial_content_provider`

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|
| `content` | string | String containing the HTML to be imported into the editor when there is no active session. |

### Example of providing static content

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_initial_content_provider: () => Promise.resolve({ content: "<p>Hello world!</p>" })
})
```

### Example of providing dynamic content from the server

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_initial_content_provider: () => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getContent', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
      }
    });
  }
})
```

## `rtc_user_details_provider`

> By default, the user ID will be displayed as the name on remote carets shown in the editor when there are active collaborators on the editor content. To display an alternative name on the caret, the user ID needs to be resolved into user details that include the full user name. This provider function will be called for each connecting client. If this option is omitted, the user ID will be presented as name for the remote user when a user hovers over the remote carets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the user ID will be displayed as the name on remote carets shown in the editor when there are active collaborators on the editor content. To display an alternative name on the caret, the user ID needs to be resolved into user details that include the full user name. This provider function will be called for each connecting client. If this option is omitted, the user ID will be presented as the name for the remote user, when a user hovers over the remote carets.
```

> Only `userId` is guaranteed to be authentic as it comes from the JWT. We suggest using `userId` to fetch user data from your server to guarantee authenticity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only `userId` is guaranteed to be authentic as it comes from the JWT. {{site.companyname}} suggests using `userId` to fetch the user data from your server to guarantee authenticity.
```

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_user_details_provider: ({userId}) => {
    return fetch('http://yourserver/getUserDetails', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({userId})
    });
  }
})
```

## `rtc_custom_user_details`

The `rtc_custom_user_details` option allows extra details to be provided about the current user to the other connecting clients. This option should not be used to communicate sensitive information; the authenticity of user data cannot not guaranteed.

This API is designed for use in status flags such as "is the user on a mobile device".

This option accepts an object that must be serializable (`JSON.stringify` will be used to transmit it between clients).

**Type:** `Object`

**Required:** no

### Example of providing custom user details

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_custom_user_details: { onMobile: true, region: 'us' }
})
```

## `rtc_user_connected`

> This option allows your application to show when a user enters the RTC session. There are 8 distinct caret colors (given a value from 1 to 8). If more than 8 people connect to a session, the numbers will be reused. This is useful for keeping a list or array of connected users up-to-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option allows applications to show when a user enters the RTC session. There are 8 distinct caret colors (given a value from 1 to 8). If more than 8 people connect to a session, the numbers will be reused. This is useful for keeping a list or array of connected users up-to-date.
```

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

### Input fields for `rtc_user_connected`

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|:----:|-------------|
| `userId` | string | This is the JWT user ID of the connecting user. |
| `caretNumber` | integer | The user's caret number 1-8 (helpful to disambiguate when a user connects multiple times). |
| `custom` | object | Custom data passed out from the other clients `rtc_custom_user_details` function. If none are provided, this will be an empty object. |

### Example of providing custom user details for `rtc_user_connected`

```js
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'rtc',
  rtc_user_connected: ({userId, caretNumber, custom}) => {
    console.log('Connected', userId, caretNumber, custom);
  }
})
```

## `rtc_user_disconnected`

> This option allows your application to track when a user leaves the session. This is useful for keeping a list or array of connected users up-to-date.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This option allows your application to track of when a user leaves the session. This is useful for keeping a list or array of connected users up-to-date.
```

Reviewer: outdated. this change doesn't make sense with the updated text.

> This option allows your application to track when a user leaves the session. This is useful for keeping a list or array of connected users up-to-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option allows applications to track when a user leaves the session. This is useful for keeping a list or array of connected users up-to-date.
```
